# Subject-Detection-in-Text

In subject detection it is an application of basic language grammar that are used to detect a subject in a text. If you see we can make a lot of grammar rules for detecting a subject like before a noun there must be a/an/the so if it is a noun we can make some handset of rules for subject detection. It is challenging that we have to make our own grammar rules that are derived from our day to day English conversation.
So we are currently researching on how to make our own regular expression or basically a context free grammar which we have to use for subject detection. We are using Norman Lewis’s Better English and Wren and Martin’s High School Grammar as a reference books for the grammar part. It is a hard part to read and design regular expressions for subject detection as there are many set of rules defined in grammar therefore we have decided to take up this exciting challenge. Subject detection part is helping us to hone ourwriting skill and improved our spoken part also. Made us aware of all the tenses which are used in day to day life. This project is helpful in technical aspect as well as non-technical aspects. If this project is successful then it is also going to make us have a sound knowledge in English. On technical aspect it has given us basis of research work in natural language processing. Natural language processing is a new developing area and vast to explore and big organizations are running after it. So there is a huge scope of research development here This project has made us familiar with python programming which we extensively used for the web data crawling using tweepy libraries which uses the customers api and secret keys. We are now familiar with NLTK library which are used in the world of natural language processing. We are able to tokenize our data and then passed it through several filters like stemming, chunking, chinking, on our raw data mainly related to name entity reorganization in a sentence. So finally, we are able to move a step ahead with good knowledge in natural language processing research area which will help us to successfully complete this project.
